# web-x
The EDI Website Project X

## Installation notes:

Use of the [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/) environment supports
deployments for both Linux and Microsoft Windows using the `environment` yaml
file for each of the respective operating systems (environment-min.yml and 
environment-win.yml, respectively). To install a new deployment, use the
following sequence:

1. `git clone git@github.com:PASTAplus/web-x.git` or
   `git clone https://github.com/PASTAplus/web-x.git` depending upon your GitHub
   authentication configuration.
1. Change directories into the working `web-x` directory.
1. `conda env install --file environment-min.yml` (Linux flavor)
1. `conda activate web-x`
1. `python main.py`
1. Set your web browser to `http:\\localhost:8000`

 - Note that, as of 28 June 2021, `fastapi-chameleon` must still be installed
   from Michael Kennedy's GitHub [repository](https://github.com/mikeckennedy/fastapi-chameleon):
   `pip install git+https://github.com/mikeckennedy/fastapi-chameleon`. If
   installing from the Conda environment files (i.e., environment-min.yml or
   environment-win.yml), Conda will install `fastapi-chameleon` from GitHub for
   you.
 - Update (October 2021): `fastapi-chameleon` is now available through [PyPi](https://pypi.org/project/fastapi-chameleon/)
   and is now declared as such in the "environment" yaml files.

### Performing an Upgrade

Performing an upgrade to an existing deployment is nearly identical to the
initial installation:

1. Change directories into the working `web-x` directory.
1. `conda activate web-x`
1. `git pull`
1. `conda env update --file environment-min.yml` (Linux flavor)
1. `python main.py`

## Development notes:

*Web-x* uses the Python FastAPI web framework, including the Chameleon
templating engine. Because FastAPI is a Python asynchronous web framework,
*web-x* use the `uvicorn` web server, a very fast implementation of the
Asynchronous Server Gateway Interface (ASGI). *Web-x* uses an MVC
(Mode-View-Controller) deployment pattern with the following directory logic:

- `main.py` - the primary Fast API/Uvicorn entry point.
- `data` - Classes/software that construct object content containing data.
- `db` - Database ORM (object relational mapper) objects.
- `deployment` - System deployment specifications for production operations.
- `services` - Classes/software for handling low-level/system functionality. 
- `static` - Static web content, including images, CSS, Javascript, and HTML. 
- `templates` - Chameleon templates for displaying dynamic-based content.
- `viewmodels` - View models that convey state to Chameleon templates.
- `views` - FastAPI URL router.

The dynamic nature of modern web applications require creating/editing
multiple files within the MVC logic of *web-x*. The simplest example of this
process is the creation of a pseudo-static web page - "pseudo" in the sense
that static content is inserted dynamically into a "layout" template (the
"layout" template is applied to all web pages constructed in *web-x*).

To create a pseudo-static web page you must add a URL "route" to one of the 
route files in the `views` directory and a Chameleon HTML template file to one
of the `templates` directories. For example:

`\views\about.py`
```Python
@router.get('/about/vision-mission')
@template("about/vision-mission.html")
def vision_mission(request: Request):
    vm = ViewModelBase(request)
    return vm.to_dict()
```
The above route tells FastAPI that the URL "/about/vision-mission" is to be
handled by the Python `vision_mission` function, which returns the 
`vision-mission.html` template file.

`\templates\about\vision-mission.html`
```HTML
<div metal:use-macro="load: ../shared/layout.html">
    <div metal:fill-slot="content" tal:omit-tag="True">

<!--?        EDITABLE CONTENT GOES BELOW HERE \/\/\/-->
        <div class="vision">
            <h1>Vision Statement</h1>
            <p>Environmental knowledge through quality data</p>

            <h1>Mission Statement</h1>
            <p>Facilitate knowledge creation by making well-curated data and metadata discoverable, accessible, and reusable</p>
        </div>
<!--?        EDITABLE CONTENT GOES ABOVE HERE /\/\/\-->

    </div>
</div>
```

The above Chameleon HTML template is inserted into the `content` slot defined in
the `layout.html` template.

## Static content:
Static web page content is managed in the [content-x](https://github.com/PASTAplus/content-x) GitHub repository. Add/edit content there.

## Search content:
The *web-x* search content is generated by an organic Python application called 
[bugle](https://github.com/PASTAplus/bugle). Bugle is added to the web-x Python
environment and then executed on the command line:

```
python -m bugle.crawl.crawl https://edirepository.org/home/pasta/web-x/cache main p li --allow="^/" --follow --sitemap
```

Bugle generates the search content, and then creates a Python pickle of the 
index for use by web-x, placing both the content json file and pickled index 
in the cache directory within the web-x home. To improve crawling by search 
engines, bugle will also generate an optional "sitemap.org" XML file. This 
file is also written to the cache directory, but must be made accessible to 
each search engine independently. For this reason, a soft-linked copy is 
made in web-x's static directory.
